Software Requirements
Speciﬁcation
User Module — eSahayak: AI-
Powered Legal Assistance Platform
Cover Page
Field Detail
Document Title
eSahayak — Software
Requirements Speciﬁcation:
User Module
Document Type Detailed Functional SRS (Single
Role)
Phase Detailed Requirement
Speciﬁcation
Version 2.1
Date 21 July 2026

Field Detail
Prepared By Business Analysis Function
Classiﬁcation Internal / Academic Reference
Reference
System
esahayak.io (studied as a live
platform, July 2026)
Parent
Document
eSahayak — Master Software
Requirements Speciﬁcation
Standards
Referenced
IEEE Std 830-1998;
ISO/IEC/IEEE 29148:2018
Features already present on the live platform are
marked Existing; recommendations arising from this
analysis are marked Future Enhancement or
Proposed Feature, and are never presented as though
they already exist.
This document assumes the reader has access to
the Master SRS. Details that apply system-wide —
stakeholders, the Advocate and Admin roles, and
general system context — are deﬁned there and are
referenced here rather than repeated.
Table of Contents

1. Introduction
2. Purpose
3. Scope
4. User Role Overview
5. Objectives of the User Module
6. User Responsibilities
7. User Permissions
8. User Workﬂow
9. User Journey
10. Detailed Functional Requirements
11. Use Case Diagram (User Only)
12. Detailed Use Case Speciﬁcations
13. Functional Requirements (Numbered)
14. Non-Functional Requirements (User Module)
15. Assumptions
16. Constraints
17. Future Enhancements
18. Conclusion
1. Introduction
Of the three roles that make up eSahayak, the User is
by far the busiest one — every document generated,
every stamp purchased, and every consultation
booked begins with a user acting on their own behalf.

This document sets out to describe that role in full,
moving well beyond the brief summary given in the
Master SRS and working through each feature the
way a requirements engineer would before handing it
to a development team.
Where the Master SRS answers "what does the
platform do, broadly speaking," this document
answers a narrower but more demanding question:
"what, precisely, must the User-facing part of the
system do, and under what conditions might it fail?"
Each feature below is examined against a consistent
set of criteria — purpose, preconditions, workﬂow,
governing business rules, expected inputs and
outputs, likely exceptions, validation logic, and both a
success and a failure scenario — so that the
speciﬁcation can be used directly as a basis for
design and test-case creation.
2. Purpose
This SRS aims to remove ambiguity from the User-
facing functionality of eSahayak. Concretely, it sets
out to:
Document every feature available to a registered
User in enough detail that a developer could
implement it without needing to guess at edge
cases.

Capture the rules that govern each feature, along
with the conditions under which it succeeds or
fails.
Provide formally structured use cases that map
cleanly onto test scenarios.
Assign a stable, numbered identiﬁer (FR-U-xxx) to
each requirement so that it can be traced from
speciﬁcation through to implementation and
testing.
3. Scope
This document is conﬁned entirely to the User role. It
covers registration, login, the dashboard, proﬁle
management, the AI legal assistant, document
generation, e-stamp purchase, digital signature,
consultation booking, government certiﬁcate services,
property record retrieval, payments, notiﬁcations, and
logout — every touchpoint a citizen or business user
has with the platform.
It does not extend into Advocate or Admin
functionality, nor does it revisit architecture, database
design, or infrastructure, all of which remain the
responsibility of the Master SRS or future documents
dedicated to those areas.
4. User Role Overview

A User, in the context of eSahayak, is simply a citizen
or a business representative who has created an
account to make use of the platform's services. There
is no assumed legal background — quite the opposite,
in fact, since the platform's entire value proposition
rests on being usable by someone with no prior
experience of legal drafting or stamp procedures.
Registration is self-service and veriﬁed by OTP;
certain actions, most notably e-signing, additionally
require Aadhaar veriﬁcation before they can be
completed. Once veriﬁed, a User operates from a
personal dashboard that acts as the entry point to
every service the platform offers. Administrative
functions and advocate-side tools sit entirely outside
what a User can see or do, and are addressed
separately in their own respective documents.
5. Objectives of the User Module
The requirements captured in this document are
ultimately in service of a handful of underlying goals:
Making account creation quick enough that a ﬁrst-
time visitor does not abandon the process
partway through.
Allowing someone with no legal training to
produce a document that is actually usable.

Keeping the full document lifecycle — draft,
stamp, sign — inside a single platform rather than
scattering it across separate services.
Providing a route to real legal advice for situations
too complex for self-service drafting.
Extending the same convenience to government-
adjacent tasks, such as certiﬁcates and property
records, that would otherwise require an in-person
visit.
Keeping the user informed at each step, rather
than leaving them to check back manually.
Making sure every paid transaction is clear,
secure, and properly recorded.
6. User Responsibilities
A platform like this only works if users hold up their
end of the process. Speciﬁcally, a User is expected to:
Provide accurate details during registration and
while using any service — a mistyped date or
address can undermine an otherwise correctly
drafted document.
Review a generated document carefully before
proceeding to stamping or signing, rather than
treating the AI-assisted draft as automatically
ﬁnal.

Complete Aadhaar/PAN veriﬁcation honestly
where it is required for stamping or signing.
Use only the platform's supported payment
methods.
Keep login credentials to themselves and report
anything that looks like unauthorised account
activity.
Treat the AI assistant's suggestions as a starting
point, not as a replacement for professional
advice where a matter is genuinely complicated.
7. User Permissions
Within the boundaries of their own account, a User
can register, log in and out, and manage their proﬁle
and KYC details; interact with the AI assistant for
drafting help; browse the template library and
generate documents; purchase e-stamp paper and
complete e-signature for documents they are party to;
book, reschedule, or cancel consultations; request
certiﬁcates and property records; and handle
payments, invoices, and refund requests.
What a User cannot do is just as important: they have
no visibility into another user's documents or data, no
ability to alter platform templates or pricing, and no
access to any Admin or Advocate-facing screen.

8. User Workﬂow
Stripped down to its essentials, a typical User's path
through the platform follows a fairly consistent
pattern, regardless of which service they are using:
Visitor
   │
   ▼
Registration
   │
   ▼
Login
   │
   ▼
Dashboard
   │
   ▼
Select Service
   │
   ▼
Fill Details
   │
   ▼
Payment
   │
   ▼
Document Generation
   │
   ▼
Download

This is the shared backbone of every service on the
platform. What changes from one service to another
is what happens between "Document Generation" and
"Download" — a rent agreement, for example, typically
inserts an e-stamp step and a digital-signature step in
between, while a property-record request skips
document generation altogether and goes straight
from payment to fulﬁlment.
9. User Journey
Zooming out from the workﬂow diagram, a more
narrative account of a typical User's experience looks
something like this:
A visitor arrives at eSahayak, usually because they
need something speciﬁc — a rent agreement, say —
and have searched for a way to get it done online
rather than through a lawyer's oﬃce. They register
using their mobile number, conﬁrm the OTP, and land
on their dashboard for the ﬁrst time. From there, they
either browse the relevant category or describe their
need to the AI assistant, which points them toward
the right template.
Filling in the guided form takes a few minutes, and the
platform shows a live preview as details are entered,
which makes it easier to catch mistakes early. Once
satisﬁed, the user pays — the price breakdown,
including any applicable stamp duty, is shown clearly

before payment is requested — and the system
proceeds to generate the ﬁnal document. If stamping
and signing are required, those steps follow
automatically, with the user receiving a notiﬁcation at
each milestone: payment conﬁrmed, stamp issued,
signature pending, signature complete. At the end of
it, the user downloads a ﬁnished, legally executed
document, having never left their browser.
From there, the relationship with the platform does
not necessarily end. A user might return later to book
a consultation, generate a second document, or —
once the proposed case-tracking feature exists —
check in on the progress of an ongoing matter without
having to remember which service handled which part
of it.
10. Detailed Functional
Requirements
The sections that follow work through each User-
facing feature individually. Each one is examined
under the same set of headings — purpose,
description, preconditions, workﬂow, business rules,
inputs, outputs, exceptions, validation rules, success
and failure scenarios, and user interaction — to keep
the speciﬁcation consistent and easy to navigate.

10.1 Registration (Existing)
Purpose. To let a new visitor turn into a veriﬁed User
with minimal friction.
Description. Registration is handled through a mobile
number or email address, conﬁrmed by a one-time
password. There is no separate approval step —
veriﬁcation of the OTP is suﬃcient to create the
account.
Preconditions. The visitor has access to a valid
mobile number or email that is not already tied to an
existing account.
Workﬂow. The visitor selects "Create free account"
and enters their mobile number or email. The system
sends an OTP, which the visitor enters; once veriﬁed,
the account is created and the visitor is prompted to
ﬁll in basic proﬁle details such as their name.
Business Rules. Each mobile number or email can be
linked to only one account. An OTP is valid for a
limited window and a limited number of attempts. It is
worth noting that registration by itself does not
amount to KYC — Aadhaar and PAN veriﬁcation
happen separately, later, when a speciﬁc service such
as e-signing requires them.
Inputs. Mobile number or email; OTP; name and other
basic proﬁle details.

Outputs. A new, veriﬁed account, along with a
conﬁrmation notiﬁcation.
Exceptions. The OTP is not received, expires before it
is entered, or is entered incorrectly more times than
allowed; the chosen identiﬁer turns out to already be
registered.
Validation Rules. The mobile number must be a valid
10-digit Indian number; the email must follow
standard email formatting; the OTP entered must
match what was issued for that session and must still
be within its validity window.
Success Scenario. The visitor receives the OTP
promptly, enters it correctly, and is taken straight to
the dashboard.
Failure Scenario. After three incorrect OTP attempts,
the system locks further attempts for a short
cooldown period and displays an appropriate
message.
User Interaction. A short, mobile-friendly form, with
the OTP ﬁeld prominent and a resend option that
becomes available after a brief countdown.
10.2 Login (Existing)

Purpose. To let a returning User securely access their
account.
Description. Login mirrors registration in spirit —
mobile number or email, conﬁrmed by OTP (or
password, depending on conﬁguration) — and results
in an authenticated session.
Preconditions. The User already holds a registered
and veriﬁed account.
Workﬂow. The User enters their registered identiﬁer,
receives (or is prompted for) their OTP or password,
and is redirected to the dashboard once veriﬁed.
Business Rules. Repeated failed attempts trigger a
temporary lockout, and a session persists until the
User either logs out deliberately or remains inactive
long enough for it to expire.
Inputs. Registered mobile number or email; OTP or
password.
Outputs. An active session and access to the
dashboard.
Exceptions. The identiﬁer is not recognised; the OTP
or password is incorrect; the account is temporarily
locked following repeated failures.
Validation Rules. The identiﬁer must correspond to an
existing account, and the OTP or password must be
both correct and unexpired.

Success Scenario. Correct credentials lead directly to
the dashboard without delay.
Failure Scenario. After several incorrect attempts, the
account enters a temporary lockout, and the User is
directed to either wait or use account recovery.
User Interaction. A deliberately minimal login screen;
error messages are worded carefully so as not to
reveal whether a given identiﬁer is registered,
protecting account privacy.
10.3 Dashboard (Existing)
Purpose. To give the User a single home screen from
which every service is reachable.
Description. Immediately after login, the User sees a
dashboard summarising recent activity — documents
drafted, orders placed, consultations booked —
alongside quick links into each service category.
Preconditions. The User is logged in.
Workﬂow. Login triggers the dashboard to load; the
User then either reviews recent activity or selects a
new service to begin.
Business Rules. The dashboard reﬂects only the
logged-in User's own activity; no data belonging to
another account is ever surfaced here.

Inputs. None directly — the dashboard is populated
from the User's existing history.
Outputs. A summary view combining service
shortcuts, recent activity, and notiﬁcations.
Exceptions. Recent activity fails to load due to a
temporary issue, in which case a retry option or
fallback message is shown rather than a blank
screen.
Validation Rules. Not applicable beyond conﬁrming
an active session.
Success Scenario. The dashboard loads promptly
with current activity and notiﬁcations visible.
Failure Scenario. Recent activity is temporarily
unavailable, but the User can still navigate to any
service without being blocked.
User Interaction. A clean, categorised layout designed
so that any service is no more than one or two clicks
away.
10.4 Proﬁle Management (Existing)
Purpose. To let the User keep their personal and
identity information current.

Description. From the proﬁle screen, a User can
update their name, contact details, and saved
addresses, and can upload or update the KYC
documents (Aadhaar, PAN) required for e-stamp and
e-sign actions.
Preconditions. The User is logged in.
Workﬂow. The User opens their proﬁle, reviews
existing details, edits the relevant ﬁelds or uploads
updated documents, and saves the changes.
Business Rules. Changing a veriﬁed mobile number
triggers re-veriﬁcation via OTP. If previously veriﬁed
KYC details are altered, they may need to be re-
veriﬁed before they can be used again for e-signing.
Inputs. Name, contact details, address, KYC
documents.
Outputs. An updated proﬁle and a conﬁrmation
notiﬁcation.
Exceptions. An uploaded document is in an
unsupported format; entered KYC details do not
match the uploaded document.
Validation Rules. Aadhaar and PAN entries must
follow their respective standard formats; uploaded
ﬁles must meet accepted type and size limits.
Success Scenario. The User updates their address
and sees it reﬂected across their account

immediately.
Failure Scenario. A blurred or invalid KYC document is
uploaded; the system rejects it and asks for a clearer
copy.
User Interaction. Editable ﬁelds with inline validation
feedback and a clear save conﬁrmation.
10.5 AI Legal Assistant (Existing, limited to
drafting support) — Conversational Guidance is
a Future Enhancement
Purpose. To help a User draft documents eﬃciently
today, and — once expanded — to help them
understand their situation in plain language.
Description. The existing "Droid" assistant helps
generate documents and is available around the
clock. This document recommends extending it into a
broader conversational assistant capable of
answering general legal questions and suggesting the
appropriate service, always with a visible disclaimer
that its output is not a substitute for professional
advice.
Preconditions. The User is logged in for a
personalised drafting session, or may interact with
general guidance features without logging in,

depending on how the conversational layer is
eventually implemented.
Workﬂow. The User opens the assistant, describes
what they need, and the assistant asks clarifying
questions before suggesting a document or drafting
clause content. The User can accept the suggestion,
edit it, or ask to be connected to a human advocate.
Business Rules. Any AI-generated draft content must
remain fully editable and subject to User review
before ﬁnalisation. Every AI response must carry a
clear, persistent disclaimer regarding its informational
nature.
Inputs. Free-text description of the User's need or
situation.
Outputs. A suggested document or service, draft
clause text, and — once the conversational layer
exists — general legal guidance and an escalation
option.
Exceptions. The assistant cannot conﬁdently interpret
an ambiguous or highly speciﬁc query and ﬂags it for
escalation rather than guessing.
Validation Rules. Not directly applicable; oversight
here comes from User review rather than ﬁeld-level
checks.

Success Scenario. A User describes wanting to
formalise a rental arrangement; the assistant
recommends the Rent Agreement template and pre-
ﬁlls any details it already has.
Failure Scenario. A User asks a narrow, fact-speciﬁc
legal question the assistant cannot safely answer;
rather than guessing, it offers to connect the User
with an advocate.
User Interaction. A chat-style interface accessible
from the dashboard and embedded within the
document-drafting ﬂow.
10.6 Legal Document Generation (Existing)
Purpose. To let a User produce a legally sound
document without needing a lawyer to draft it from
scratch.
Description. The User picks a document type, works
through a guided form, and watches a live preview
take shape before downloading the ﬁnished ﬁle.
Preconditions. The User is logged in and has selected
a document type from the template library.
Workﬂow. The User browses or searches the library,
selects a document (a Rent Agreement, for instance),
and ﬁlls in the guided form — parties, dates, monetary

terms, and so on. The system generates a live preview
as details are entered; the User reviews it, makes any
edits, and proceeds to payment before the document
is ﬁnalised and, where applicable, routed onward to
stamping and signing.
Business Rules. Only lawyer-veriﬁed templates may
be used for a document intended to have legal effect,
and mandatory clauses deﬁned in the template
cannot be removed by the User.
Inputs. Party details, dates, monetary terms,
addresses, and other document-speciﬁc ﬁelds.
Outputs. A generated draft, available as a live preview
and a downloadable ﬁle.
Exceptions. A required ﬁeld is left blank; dates
conﬂict with one another (an end date before a start
date, for example); the selected document type is not
supported for the User's chosen state.
Validation Rules. Mandatory ﬁelds must be
completed, dates must be internally consistent,
monetary values must be positive, and identity ﬁelds
such as PAN or Aadhaar must follow expected
formats where captured.
Success Scenario. All ﬁelds are completed correctly,
the preview looks right, payment goes through, and a
complete draft is downloaded within minutes.

Failure Scenario. A mandatory clause ﬁeld is left
blank; the system highlights it and withholds the
preview until it is corrected.
User Interaction. A step-by-step guided form paired
with a live, side-by-side preview of the document as it
is built.
10.7 e-Stamp Purchase (Existing)
Purpose. To let a User obtain a valid e-stamp
certiﬁcate for a document that requires one.
Description. After selecting their state or union
territory, the User sees the applicable stamp duty
calculated automatically, and the certiﬁcate is
procured through an authorised vendor once payment
is made.
Preconditions. A document exists that requires
stamping, and the User has conﬁrmed the relevant
state or UT.
Workﬂow. The User selects "Buy e-Stamp," conﬁrms
the state and document details, reviews the
calculated duty, pays, and the system submits the
request to the relevant vendor before returning the
certiﬁcate — either as a download or as a scheduled
physical delivery.

Business Rules. Stamp duty is calculated strictly
according to the selected state's rules, and the validity
and usage of the resulting e-stamp follow the issuing
authority's own regulations, which the platform has no
ability to override.
Inputs. State/UT selection, document type and value,
and KYC details as required by the vendor.
Outputs. A digital e-stamp certiﬁcate and/or a
scheduled physical delivery.
Exceptions. The chosen state is not currently
supported for e-stamping through the platform; the
vendor's system is temporarily unavailable; the
payment fails.
Validation Rules. The state/UT must be one from the
supported list, and the document value entered must
be a valid, positive amount.
Success Scenario. A User selects Maharashtra, pays
the calculated duty, and receives a valid e-stamp
certiﬁcate within the platform's usual turnaround time.
Failure Scenario. The vendor's system is brieﬂy
unavailable; the User is informed of the delay along
with a revised expected turnaround.
User Interaction. The stamp-duty calculation is shown
clearly before payment is requested, so there are no
surprises at checkout.

10.8 Digital Signature (Existing)
Purpose. To let a User (and any other named parties)
execute a document electronically, with the same
legal standing as a physical signature.
Description. Signature requests go out to every
named party; each must verify their identity through
Aadhaar OTP before their signature is applied, and a
tamper-evident ﬁnal document is produced once
everyone has signed.
Preconditions. A document exists with one or more
named signing parties and valid contact details for
each.
Workﬂow. The User initiates e-signing and speciﬁes
the signing parties. Each party receives a request,
veriﬁes via Aadhaar OTP, and signs; the platform
tracks and displays the status of each signature in
real time until the document is fully executed.
Business Rules. A document is not considered legally
complete until every named party has signed, and
identity must be veriﬁed through Aadhaar OTP before
any signature is recorded.
Inputs. Signing party contact details, and Aadhaar
OTP from each signer at the point of signing.

Outputs. A fully signed, tamper-evident ﬁnal
document with an embedded audit trail.
Exceptions. A named party fails to complete Aadhaar
veriﬁcation; a signing request goes unanswered and
eventually expires.
Validation Rules. Aadhaar OTP veriﬁcation must
precede any recorded signature, and all mandatory
signing parties must complete their part before the
document is marked as ﬁnished.
Success Scenario. Every party receives their request,
veriﬁes via Aadhaar OTP, and signs within the
expected window, after which the User downloads the
fully executed document.
Failure Scenario. One party does not respond; the
User can send a reminder or, if enough time passes,
cancel and restart the request.
User Interaction. A visible tracker showing
signed/pending status for each party, which is
particularly useful in multi-party agreements.
10.9 Consultation Booking (Existing)
Purpose. To let a User book time with an advocate
when they need advice rather than a document.

Description. The User picks a topic and a preferred
slot, the system assigns and notiﬁes an available
advocate, and the booking is conﬁrmed once
accepted.
Preconditions. The User is logged in and has
identiﬁed a need for professional legal advice.
Workﬂow. The User selects "Book Consultation,"
chooses a topic and time slot, completes payment if
required, and receives conﬁrmation once an advocate
accepts the booking. Consultation outcome notes are
made available to the User afterward.
Business Rules. A consultation can only be assigned
to an advocate qualiﬁed in the relevant practice area,
and cancellations or rescheduling follow the
platform's stated policy.
Inputs. Consultation topic, preferred date and time,
and payment details where applicable.
Outputs. A conﬁrmed booking, followed later by
outcome notes from the consultation itself.
Exceptions. No advocate is available in the requested
window; an advocate declines a booking after it is
made.
Validation Rules. The selected slot must fall within an
advocate's stated availability, and the topic must
correspond to a supported consultation category.

Success Scenario. A User books a divorce
consultation and receives conﬁrmation of the
advocate's name and the scheduled time shortly
afterward.
Failure Scenario. No advocate is free at the requested
time; the system offers the next available slot instead
of simply declining the request.
User Interaction. A straightforward category picker
paired with a calendar-style slot selector.
10.10 Government Certiﬁcate Services
(Existing)
Purpose. To let a User apply for common government
certiﬁcates without a physical visit to a government
oﬃce.
Description. The User provides the details required for
a speciﬁc certiﬁcate type, and the platform
coordinates fulﬁlment and delivery.
Preconditions. The User has the personal or family
details relevant to the certiﬁcate being requested.
Workﬂow. The User selects a certiﬁcate type,
completes the intake form speciﬁc to it, pays if
applicable, and the request is routed for processing

before the result is delivered within the stated
turnaround time.
Business Rules. Required ﬁelds vary by certiﬁcate
type and by state, and it bears repeating that the
platform facilitates these requests rather than issuing
certiﬁcates in a government capacity itself.
Inputs. Personal or family details speciﬁc to the
certiﬁcate, along with any supporting information
requested.
Outputs. The completed certiﬁcate or equivalent
process guidance, delivered by download, email, or
WhatsApp.
Exceptions. A required detail is missing or
inconsistent; the requested certiﬁcate type is not
currently supported in the User's state.
Validation Rules. Mandatory ﬁelds for the speciﬁc
certiﬁcate type must be completed, and identity
details must be internally consistent.
Success Scenario. A User requests a legal heir
certiﬁcate and receives it, or the relevant process
guidance, within the stated turnaround time.
Failure Scenario. The requested certiﬁcate is not
supported in the User's state; they are informed
clearly and pointed toward an alternative, such as a
consultation.

User Interaction. A certiﬁcate-speciﬁc intake form
with turnaround expectations stated upfront rather
than discovered later.
10.11 Property Record Retrieval (Existing)
Purpose. To let a User retrieve land or property
records for a speciﬁed location without visiting the
relevant registry oﬃce.
Description. After entering location-speciﬁc identiﬁers
— which vary by state — the User receives the
corresponding record, typically over WhatsApp.
Preconditions. The User has the identiﬁers required
for their state's particular record format (district,
tehsil, village, and a survey, khasra, or khata number,
depending on the state).
Workﬂow. The User selects "Property Records,"
chooses their state, enters the required identiﬁers,
pays if applicable, and the request is submitted for
retrieval before the record is delivered within the
committed turnaround time.
Business Rules. The speciﬁc identiﬁers required differ
from state to state, since record formats and
registries are not standardised nationally.

Inputs. State, district/tehsil/village, and the identiﬁer
speciﬁc to that state's system.
Outputs. The requested property record, generally
delivered via WhatsApp.
Exceptions. The entered identiﬁers do not match any
record in the source registry; the requested state is
not currently supported.
Validation Rules. Identiﬁer ﬁelds must follow the
format expected for the selected state.
Success Scenario. A User enters the correct Punjab
identiﬁers and receives the Jamabandi document on
WhatsApp within 24 hours.
Failure Scenario. The entered identiﬁers do not
correspond to any known record; the User is notiﬁed
and asked to re-check the details.
User Interaction. A state-speciﬁc form that only
shows the ﬁelds relevant to that state's record
system, rather than a generic, one-size-ﬁts-all form.
10.12 Payments (Existing)
Purpose. To let a User pay for any service securely
and receive proper proof of payment.

Description. Pricing is broken down and shown
transparently — service fee, stamp duty, consultation
fee, as relevant — before the User is asked to pay
through a secure gateway, after which an invoice is
generated.
Preconditions. The User has an order ready for
checkout, whether that is a document, an e-stamp, a
consultation, a certiﬁcate, or a property-record
request.
Workﬂow. The system shows an itemised total, the
User selects a payment method (card, UPI, or net-
banking), completes the transaction, and the system
conﬁrms payment and generates an invoice before
proceeding with the underlying service.
Business Rules. Pricing must clearly separate the
platform's own fee from any government stamp duty
or third-party charge, and refunds are governed by the
platform's published refund policy.
Inputs. Payment method details, handled securely by
the gateway rather than stored directly by the
platform.
Outputs. Payment conﬁrmation and a downloadable
invoice.
Exceptions. The payment is declined; the gateway
times out; the same request is submitted more than
once.

Validation Rules. The amount charged must match
the displayed total, and a transaction must not be
processed twice for the same order.
Success Scenario. A User pays via UPI, the payment
is conﬁrmed almost instantly, and they proceed to the
next step.
Failure Scenario. A bank declines the payment; the
User sees a clear error and is offered the option to
retry with a different method.
User Interaction. A clear, itemised checkout screen
showing every charge before payment is requested.
10.13 Notiﬁcations (Existing in part) — Uniﬁed
In-App Notiﬁcations is a Future Enhancement
Purpose. To keep the User informed as their requests
move through the system.
Description. Transactional updates — order
conﬁrmation, payment status, signature requests,
service completion — are currently sent via SMS,
WhatsApp, or email depending on the workﬂow.
Consolidating these into a single, conﬁgurable in-app
notiﬁcation centre is proposed as a future
enhancement rather than something already
available.

Preconditions. The User has an active account and at
least one ongoing or completed transaction.
Workﬂow. A triggering event occurs — payment
conﬁrmed, e-stamp issued, signature pending,
certiﬁcate delivered — and the system composes and
sends the relevant notiﬁcation through the
appropriate channel.
Business Rules. Notiﬁcations tied to legally or
ﬁnancially signiﬁcant events, such as payments and
signature requests, must always be sent regardless of
any general preference settings a User might
conﬁgure.
Inputs. None directly from the User beyond channel
preferences, where conﬁgurable.
Outputs. SMS, WhatsApp, or email messages, and —
under the proposed enhancement — entries in an in-
app notiﬁcation centre.
Exceptions. A given channel is temporarily
unreachable (a WhatsApp delivery failure, for
instance), in which case a fallback channel should
ideally be used.
Validation Rules. Notiﬁcations must be sent to the
veriﬁed contact details on the User's proﬁle.
Success Scenario. A User receives a WhatsApp
message conﬁrming that their requested property

record has been delivered.
Failure Scenario. A WhatsApp message fails to send;
the system falls back to email or SMS so the User is
still informed.
User Interaction. Presently channel-based; the
proposed enhancement would add a single
notiﬁcation icon on the dashboard consolidating all
recent updates.
10.14 Logout (Existing)
Purpose. To let a User end their session securely.
Description. Logging out terminates the active
session and returns the User to the public landing
page.
Preconditions. The User is currently logged in.
Workﬂow. The User selects "Logout" from the account
menu, the session is terminated, and they are
redirected to the login or landing page.
Business Rules. The session token must be fully
invalidated on logout so that it cannot be reused
afterward.
Inputs. None — a single user action.
Outputs. Session termination and redirection.

Exceptions. A temporary system issue prevents
logout from completing, in which case the User is
shown an error and can retry.
Validation Rules. Not applicable beyond conﬁrming
an active session exists to terminate.
Success Scenario. The User selects logout and is
returned to the landing page with no further access to
account data until they log in again.
Failure Scenario. A brief connectivity issue prevents
logout from completing; the User is prompted to try
again.
User Interaction. A single, clearly labelled action
within the account or proﬁle menu.
11. Use Case Diagram (User Only)
The diagram below summarises the User's
interactions with the system as a set of use cases. A
few relationships are worth calling out: Payment (UC-
08) is included by any use case involving a charge,
and Document Generation (UC-04) frequently extends
into e-Stamp (UC-05) and Digital Signature (UC-06)
whenever a document needs to be both stamped and
signed. Track Requests (UC-09) is shown here as a
proposed use case, corresponding to the case-

tracking enhancement discussed earlier in this
document and in the Master SRS.
graph LR
    User((User))
    User --> UC01[UC-01 Register]
    User --> UC02[UC-02 Login]
    User --> UC03[UC-03 Update Profile]
    User --> UC04[UC-04 Generate Legal 
Document]
    User --> UC05[UC-05 Purchase e-Stamp]
    User --> UC06[UC-06 Apply Digital 
Signature]
    User --> UC07[UC-07 Book Consultation]
    User --> UC08[UC-08 Make Payment]
    User --> UC09[UC-09 Track Requests - 
Proposed]
    User --> UC10[UC-10 Logout]
    UC04 -.include.-> UC08
    UC05 -.include.-> UC08
    UC07 -.include.-> UC08
    UC04 -.extend.-> UC05
    UC04 -.extend.-> UC06
12. Detailed Use Case Speciﬁcations
UC-01: Register

Actor: Visitor (becomes User on success)
Precondition: The visitor has a valid mobile
number or email that is not already registered.
Main Flow: Visitor provides an identiﬁer →  system
sends OTP →  visitor enters OTP →  account is
veriﬁed and created.
Alternate Flow: OTP is not received; visitor
requests a resend after the cooldown period.
Exception Flow: The identiﬁer is already
registered; the system suggests logging in
instead.
Postcondition: A new, veriﬁed User account
exists.
UC-02: Login
Actor: User
Precondition: The User holds a registered, veriﬁed
account.
Main Flow: User provides their identiﬁer →
system sends OTP or requests a password →
User authenticates →  a session is created.
Alternate Flow: User selects account recovery
instead of a standard login.
Exception Flow: Repeated failed attempts trigger
a temporary lockout.
Postcondition: The User has an authenticated
session and lands on the dashboard.

UC-03: Update Proﬁle
Actor: User
Precondition: The User is logged in.
Main Flow: User opens their proﬁle →  edits ﬁelds
or uploads KYC documents →  system validates
and saves the changes.
Alternate Flow: A changed mobile number
triggers re-veriﬁcation via OTP.
Exception Flow: An invalid KYC document format
is rejected, with a request to re-upload.
Postcondition: The proﬁle reﬂects the updated
information.
UC-04: Generate Legal Document
Actor: User
Precondition: The User is logged in and has
selected a document type.
Main Flow: User completes the guided form →
system generates a preview →  User conﬁrms →
User proceeds to payment →  the document is
ﬁnalised.
Alternate Flow: The User saves an in-progress
draft and resumes it later.
Exception Flow: A mandatory ﬁeld is missing; the
preview is withheld until it is corrected.

Postcondition: A ﬁnished document is available
for download, and, where applicable, routed
onward to stamping or signing.
UC-05: Purchase e-Stamp
Actor: User
Precondition: The User has a document that
requires stamping.
Main Flow: User selects a state/UT →  system
calculates the applicable duty →  User pays →  the
system procures the e-stamp certiﬁcate.
Alternate Flow: User opts for doorstep delivery
rather than a digital download.
Exception Flow: The vendor's system is
temporarily unavailable, and the User is informed
of the delay.
Postcondition: A valid e-stamp certiﬁcate is linked
to the document.
UC-06: Apply Digital Signature
Actor: User (and other named signing parties)
Precondition: A document exists with named
signing parties.
Main Flow: User initiates e-sign →  requests are
sent to each party →  each party veriﬁes via
Aadhaar OTP and signs →  the system ﬁnalises
the document.

Alternate Flow: The User sends a reminder to a
signatory who has not yet responded.
Exception Flow: A party fails Aadhaar veriﬁcation,
and the request remains pending until resolved.
Postcondition: The document is fully signed and
tamper-evident.
UC-07: Book Consultation
Actor: User
Precondition: The User is logged in and has
identiﬁed a consultation need.
Main Flow: User selects a topic and time slot →
pays if required →  an advocate is assigned and
conﬁrms the booking.
Alternate Flow: The User reschedules to a
different available slot.
Exception Flow: No advocate is available at the
requested time, so the system offers the next
available slot.
Postcondition: A conﬁrmed consultation booking
exists.
UC-08: Make Payment
Actor: User
Precondition: An order is ready for checkout.

Main Flow: The system displays an itemised total
→  User selects a payment method →  payment is
processed →  an invoice is generated.
Alternate Flow: The User retries payment with a
different method after a decline.
Exception Flow: A gateway timeout occurs; the
transaction is not duplicated, and the User is
prompted to retry.
Postcondition: Payment is conﬁrmed and linked
to the originating order.
UC-09: Track Requests (Proposed Feature)
Actor: User
Precondition: The User has one or more active
service requests underway.
Main Flow: The User opens a consolidated
requests view →  sees the current status of each
active item.
Alternate Flow: The User ﬁlters the view by
request type or status.
Exception Flow: A status update is temporarily
delayed pending information from an external
vendor.
Postcondition: The User has visibility into all of
their active requests from a single screen.
UC-10: Logout

Actor: User
Precondition: The User is logged in.
Main Flow: User selects logout →  the session is
terminated →  the User is redirected to the landing
page.
Alternate Flow: None.
Exception Flow: A temporary failure prevents
logout from completing, and the User retries.
Postcondition: The User's session is fully
invalidated.
13. Functional Requirements
(Numbered)
The requirements below are stated formally, in the
conventional "the system shall" style, since this is the
section of the document intended for direct
traceability into design, development, and test
planning. Each one is linked back to the descriptive
section it was drawn from.
ID Requirement Related
Section
FR-U-001 The system shall allow a
visitor to register using a
10.1

ID Requirement Related
Section
mobile number or email
veriﬁed by OTP.
FR-U-002
The system shall prevent
duplicate registration
using the same mobile
number or email.
10.1
FR-U-003
The system shall allow a
registered User to log in
using OTP-based (or
password-based)
authentication.
10.2
FR-U-004
The system shall
temporarily lock an
account after repeated
failed login attempts.
10.2
FR-U-005
The system shall present
a dashboard
summarising the User's
services, recent activity,
and notiﬁcations after
login.
10.3
FR-U-006 The system shall allow
the User to view and edit
10.4

ID Requirement Related
Section
their proﬁle details and
KYC documents.
FR-U-007
The system shall require
re-veriﬁcation of a
mobile number if it is
changed on the proﬁle.
10.4
FR-U-008
The system shall provide
an AI assistant capable
of assisting with
document generation on
demand.
10.5
FR-U-009
The system shall display
a disclaimer on all AI-
generated guidance
indicating it is not a
substitute for
professional legal
advice.
10.5
FR-U-010
The system shall provide
a categorised,
searchable library of
legal document
templates.
10.6

ID Requirement Related
Section
FR-U-011
The system shall
generate a live preview
of the document as the
User completes the
guided form.
10.6
FR-U-012
The system shall prevent
document preview and
ﬁnalisation until all
mandatory ﬁelds are
completed.
10.6
FR-U-013
The system shall allow
the User to select a
state/UT and view the
calculated stamp duty
before payment.
10.7
FR-U-014
The system shall
procure a valid e-stamp
certiﬁcate through an
authorised vendor upon
successful payment.
10.7

ID Requirement Related
Section
FR-U-015
The system shall allow
the User to send e-
signature requests to all
named parties of a
document.
10.8
FR-U-016
The system shall verify
each signer's identity via
Aadhaar OTP before
recording a signature.
10.8
FR-U-017
The system shall display
real-time signature
status for each party
until the document is
fully executed.
10.8
FR-U-018
The system shall allow
the User to book a
consultation by selecting
a topic and an available
time slot.
10.9
FR-U-019
The system shall notify
the User of the assigned
advocate and conﬁrmed
consultation time.
10.9

ID Requirement Related
Section
FR-U-020
The system shall allow
the User to request
applicable government
certiﬁcates by
completing a certiﬁcate-
speciﬁc intake form.
10.10
FR-U-021
The system shall allow
the User to request
property or land records
by providing the
location-speciﬁc
identiﬁers required by
their state.
10.11
FR-U-022
The system shall display
an itemised price
breakdown before
requesting payment.
10.12
FR-U-023
The system shall
process payments
through a secure
payment gateway and
issue a downloadable
invoice.
10.12
FR-U-024 The system shall not
process the same
10.12

ID Requirement Related
Section
payment more than once
for a single order.
FR-U-025
The system shall send
notiﬁcations to the User
for order conﬁrmation,
payment status,
signature requests, and
service completion.
10.13
FR-U-026
The system shall allow
the User to log out
securely, invalidating the
active session.
10.14
FR-U-027
(Proposed
Feature)
The system shall provide
the User a consolidated
view to track the status
of active requests
across services.
10.9 /
UC-09
14. Non-Functional Requirements
(User Module)
The following non-functional expectations apply
speciﬁcally to the User-facing part of the system,

reﬁning the system-wide expectations described in
the Master SRS.
Category Requirement
Security
All User PII and KYC data must be
encrypted, and e-sign and payment
actions must require OTP-based
veriﬁcation.
Reliability
Payment, e-stamp, and e-sign
actions must be idempotent — a
retry after a failure should never
duplicate the underlying transaction.
Performance
Document previews should update
within a few seconds under normal
load, and the AI assistant should
respond promptly rather than
leaving the User waiting.
Scalability
User-facing services should stay
responsive even as the number of
concurrently active accounts grows
substantially.
Availability
Core journeys — login, document
generation, payment — should
experience minimal unplanned
downtime.

Category Requirement
Usability
A ﬁrst-time User should be able to
generate a common document,
such as a rent agreement, without
external help, within a short session.
Accessibility
The interface should work
comfortably on both desktop and
mobile browsers, with clear,
readable forms.
15. Assumptions
This speciﬁcation assumes that the User has access
to a working mobile number or email for OTP
veriﬁcation, and, where Aadhaar-based e-signing is
involved, an Aadhaar-linked mobile number
speciﬁcally. It also assumes a reasonable degree of
digital literacy — enough to complete an online form
and make an online payment without assistance —
and that the document templates presented to the
User are kept legally current by the platform's own
legal and content team.
16. Constraints
Several practical constraints shape what the User
module can guarantee. e-Stamp issuance depends on

third-party vendors whose availability and rules the
platform does not control. Aadhaar-based e-signature
similarly requires integration through a licensed
signature service provider operating under applicable
regulation. Certiﬁcate and property-record requests
are partly fulﬁlled through back-oﬃce processing
rather than fully automated pipelines, so turnaround
times are not instantaneous. Finally, the User module
inherits the same security and data-protection
constraints deﬁned for the system as a whole in the
Master SRS.
17. Future Enhancements
Several improvements naturally follow from the gaps
identiﬁed throughout this document: expanding the AI
Legal Assistant into a genuine conversational tool (as
discussed in Section 10.5 and in the Master SRS),
building out the "Track Requests" view hinted at in UC-
09 into a proper case-tracking dashboard,
consolidating notiﬁcations into a single in-app centre
rather than the current channel-by-channel approach,
adding multi-language support for both the AI
assistant and core forms, and eventually extending
User access to a native mobile application.
18. Conclusion

This document has worked through every feature
available to the User role on eSahayak — from the
moment a visitor registers to the moment they log out
— describing not just what each feature does, but the
rules, exceptions, and edge cases that govern it. Read
alongside the Master SRS, which supplies the system-
wide context this document deliberately leaves out,
the two together form a reasonably complete
requirement baseline for the User-facing side of the
platform, suitable for guiding design, development,
and testing in the phases that follow.
End of User Module SRS.

